[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
louise minchin and charlie state
our headlines for you today boris
johnson promises a one-way road
to freedom as he sets out his plan to
relax england's
lockdown restrictions there is light
ahead
leading us to a spring and a summer
which i think will be seasons
of hope looking and feeling incomparably
better for us all and from which
we will not go back meetings inside
could be allowed from
mid-may with june the 21st the earliest
possible date when all restrictions
can be lifted in seven weeks you'll be
able to get your hair cut and head to
the gym but it will be a longer way
before you can eat inside restaurants
like this one the hospitality industry
says it isn't fair and it doesn't make
sense
outdoor sports can restart from the end
of next month gyms can reopen
in mid-april and up to 10 000 fans
could be back in sports stadiums by the
17th of may
just in time for the euros our best ever
view of a landing on another world
stunning new footage of the moment
nasa's perseverance rover arrived on
mars
good morning it's going to be a windy
day for us all today especially though
in the west
and in the northwest of the uk we're
looking at some heavy rain
which could lead to some flooding issues
drier and brighter the further south
indies that you travel
i'll have more details in about 10
minutes
[Music]
morning it's a tuesday the 23rd of
february our main story for you boris
johnson has revealed his plan to
end lockdown in england which could see
covid restrictions
fully eased by the 21st of june if
strict conditions are met
the prime minister says his plans over
the next four months
are cautious but offer the best chance
to avoid
another lockdown our political
correspondent ian watson has this report
it's been a long hard winter with some
of the things we used to take for
granted
now beyond reach but the prime minister
says with a successful vaccination
program
the end is in sight this unparalleled
national effort has decisively shifted
the odds in our favor but with every day
that goes by this program of vaccination
is creating
a shield around the entire population
which means that we're now traveling on
a one-way
road to freedom and what are the
milestones on that road
on march the 8th all children in england
will go back to school
two people from different households
will be allowed to socialise together
outdoors
care home residents will be allowed one
regular visitor from march the 29th
six people or two households can meet
outdoors
and outdoor sports facilities will open
from april the 12th at the
earliest non-essential retail and
personal care such as hairdressers will
reopen
gyms will be open too for individual use
outdoor hospitality such as beer gardens
can open up
and from may the 17th at the earliest
most restrictions on meeting outdoors
will be lifted
six people or two households will be
able to meet indoors
and indoor hospitality yes pubs and
cafes
and hotels will reopen from june the
21st at the earliest the remaining
restrictions would end
some of boris johnson's own mps think
the pace of change is too slow
he says a cautious approach is more
likely to mean any easing of
restrictions
won't be reversed but this can't be
absolutely guaranteed
the intention is that it should be
irreversible
and that's why we're going in the way
that we are that's why we're taking the
the steps that we are and even when
existing restrictions end
some familiar paraphernalia of the
pandemic might remain
masks may still be advisable next winter
according to the government's chief
scientific advisor
and there'll be a review into the use of
what the government calls covet status
certificates
this has raised the prospect of people
having to provide proof that they've
been vaccinated
or had a recent negative test to access
some venues
and possibly some workplaces beyond june
so if a vaccine bursting variant doesn't
disrupt things
life is likely to feel a lot more normal
by the summer
but perhaps not quite as we knew it
before covert struck
ian watson bbc news so we'll be talking
about
all those changes throughout the program
this morning speaking specifically did
the health secretary matt hancock at
half past
seven nicolas sturgeon will set out her
plans for easing lockdown in scotland
later today it's thought first minister
will announce a return to regional
system of restrictions
with the first priority getting more
children back to school followed by more
social interaction
for adults airlines and holiday
companies say they have seen a surge in
bookings in the past
24 hours the increase comes despite
boris johnson's confirmation that a ban
on foreign travel will remain in place
until at least mid-may self-catering
breaks in england will resume
on the 12th of april at the earliest
the united states has become the first
country in the world to record
more than half a million coronavirus
deaths president bidens described the
milestone as heartbreaking
and held candlelit ceremony at the white
house to honor those
lost to covert 19. david willis has more
[Music]
in the nation's capital washington dc
the cathedral bell has rung
with growing frequency of late marking
each new
corona virus milestone and in an address
to the nation
a president whose own life has been
marked by the loss of loved ones
spoke directly to the relatives and
friends of the half a million americans
who've lost their lives to copen19
for the loved ones left behind i know
all too well
i know what it's like to not be there
when it happens
i know what it's like when you are there
holding their hands they look in your
eye and they slip away
an erratic response to the pandemic
under president biden's predecessor
donald trump
has been replaced by a ramped up
vaccination program
a significant fall in the average daily
death toll
and talk of getting the country fully
vaccinated by the end of july
this country has lost more lives to the
coronavirus than any other nation on
earth
more than in the first second and
vietnam wars combined
and at the white house where candles
were lit in memory of the dead
the president and vice president emerged
to observe a moment of silence
flanks will remain at half staff here
and in public buildings across the
country
until the end of the week the chair asks
all members in the chamber as well as
members
and staff throughout the capitol to rise
for a moment of silence
the house of representatives also paid
tribute to those who have died
democrats and republicans united in
solemn reflection
later this week the house is expected to
vote on one of president biden's biggest
legislative priorities a nearly two
trillion dollar
coronavirus relief bill david wallace
bbc news los angeles
nasa has released stunning new pictures
captured by the perseverance rover
after its dramatic touchdown on mars yes
the
footage shows the final minutes of last
week's
tense descent to the red planet as our
global science correspondent rebecca
morrell now reports
the parachute has deployed from the
release of a supersonic parachute
to the shedding of a heat shield first
look at the surface
an out of this world view mars has never
seen before
as the rover nears the surface the dust
is kicked up
then a change of camera as perseverance
is lowered on ropes
before touchdown confirmed
[Applause]
and the landing system is jettisoned
away we can't test it on the earth
so this is the first time we've had a
chance as engineers to actually see
what we designed and uh i just can't
it's hard for me to uh express just how
emotional it was and how exciting it was
there are new still images too a selfie
of the rover
and a vista of the alien world it now
sits in
providing a glimpse of the terrain it's
about to explore
now has radar lock on the ground this
footage is already providing crucial
information to scientists
and they'll continue to study it as
perseverance gets to work
it's just a taste of what's to come
rebecca morel bbc news
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news